KM document slideseq test data (#899)
broadinstitute/warp: pipelines/skylab/slideseq/test_inputs/test_data_overview.md

# Slideseq Test Data

The following lists the data used for workflow validation, including workflow engineering (plumbing) tests and scientific validation tests.

All unmodified files are stored in a public Google bucket (gs://nemo-public/biccn-unbundled/grant/rf1_macosko/macosko/spatial_transcriptome/cellgroup/Slide-seq/mouse/raw/) and can be identified using their sample ID (ex. Puck_210817_11).

## Plumbing

> * Puck_210817_11.human

Author: Do these live anywhere other than in the SlideSeq dev workspace bucket? Somewhere public we can link to? @khajoue2

> The plumbing input listed above was downsampled using a [custom python script](Plumbing/slideseq_downsample.py) to first crop the sample from 2500 to 4000 in the x-dimension and 1000 to 4200 in the y-dimension. Next, 10 random cells were sampled for each 30 by 30 region in the cropped sample. The list of sampled cells was then used to create new, downsampled FASTQ files using a second [custom script](https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp-tools/blob/master/fastqpreprocessing/src/samplefastq.cpp) from the [warp-tools GitHub repository](https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp-tools/tree/master). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plumbing input FASTQ listed above was downsampled using a [custom python script](Plumbing/slideseq_downsample.py). First, a PDF image of the sample puck was examined and the XY coordinates for a region of interest were selected. A bead position TSV containing the XY coordinates for the puck's barcodes was used as input to the custom script and the TSV was cropped 2500 to 4000 in the x-dimension and 1000 to 4200 in the y-dimension. Next, 10 random cells were sampled for each 30 by 30 region in the cropped TSV. The list of sampled cells was then used to create new, downsampled FASTQ files using a second [custom script](https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp-tools/blob/master/fastqpreprocessing/src/samplefastq.cpp) from the [warp-tools GitHub repository](https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp-tools/tree/master). 
```

> The plumbing input listed above was downsampled using a [custom python script](Plumbing/slideseq_downsample.py) to first crop the sample from 2500 to 4000 in the x-dimension and 1000 to 4200 in the y-dimension. Next, 10 random cells were sampled for each 30 by 30 region in the cropped sample. The list of sampled cells was then used to create new, downsampled FASTQ files using a second [custom script](https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp-tools/blob/master/fastqpreprocessing/src/samplefastq.cpp) from the [warp-tools GitHub repository](https://github.com/broadinstitute/warp-tools/tree/master). 

Author: Updated
